Ever since the Cold War, the United States has been pushing students towards engagement in Science and Math-based classes. Why? Because these courses are the gateway to the future. Math is needed in basically every field, from accounting to quantum physics, from business to philosophy. There is a reason for this. Math provides the basic foundation needed in order to survive in our current world. It is a key, both to prosper and survive.
The highest paying and fastest growing jobs in the united states have a foundation in math. For example, engineering, Engineering remains one of the most respected jobs. With a fast growing job market, and choices ranging from Biomedical Engineering, to Computer Software Engineering, people consider it the occupation of the future. What subject remains as the basic foundation of Engineering? A certain number-based course. According to a Department of Education study, STEM majors make about $15,000 more than the average non-STEM major. The average yearly Salary for a Mathematician is about $101,000, several thousand dollars higher than the average person. Math has propelled us towards the future, and remains a guiding force in the present, even for those not looking toward a STEM based occupation. 
Success in Math is carefully considered by colleges. We live in a mathematically involved society. Take the SAT for example. The SAT is used by colleges to determine our likelihood for success in college. Half our SAT uses our proficiency in  Math. Math plays a prominent role in our ACT score as well. The reason for this is simple, Math measures your logic, problem-solving, and analytical skills. Math plays a significant role in Chemistry, as well as in both Algebra and Calculus based Physics. For students looking to get into their favorite college, Math remains a highly regarded course in your college application. To the students looking for just a challenging subject to take, the most rigorous classes one can undertake in high-school tend to be math-based. Even with the heightened importance of Math in school, it serves a purpose outside of school as well.
Math remains a crucial life skill. Do you want to open a business? You need Math. Do you want to be a carpenter? You need Math. Or Perhaps you want to be a Plumber, or an Electric Engineer? Math remains your friend. Filing your taxes? Managing your finances? Impossible without knowledge of Math. Never has a person been disadvantage for knowing too much Math, it teaches the skills everyone needs. Math teaches problem solving and analytical skills that people of all backgrounds and profession needs in order to succeed. It is the gateway to success, the key to the future, and thus, ever since the Cold War, there has been a push toward Math. It is the best subject one could ever take.
